= Stepper
A Command line tool to locate step definitions, find which are not being used and see which features use a given step definition, without waiting to run your test suite.


==Use Cases
====Example 1
You are looking at some cucumber features and you come to step which you want to check.  ie:
    And I have put "some stuff" into "this field"

You have 100's of step definitions over 10's of files, how do you quickly find where that step definition is?
You could run that test again with the <code>--format usage</code> option but a) you have to wait for that test to run and b) you will get a load of un-needed information about all the other steps.

    step --find "And I have put \"some stuff\" into \"this field\""
Which will return:
    found:	Given /^I have put "([^"]*)" into "([^"]*)"$/ do |data, field|
    line:	42 in features/my_nondescript_steps.rb


You can then change --find to --useof and see what other features also use this same step.
    step --useof "And I have put \"some stuff\" into \"this field\""

    File: common_steps.rb
    42  Given /^I have put "([^"]*)" into "([^"]*)"$/ do |data, field|	Used in 4 features
        features/login.feature:
        lines: 18,32
        features/users.feature:
        lines: 27,94

====Example 2
You want to see which steps are not being used.
You could use the <code>--format usage</code> option in cucumber but your test suite takes over 30 minutes to run and you don't want to wait.

    step --notused


==install
I've not released this to ruby gems yet.  It's my first Gem and was written in haste, its probably not worthy of rubygem release, but if you want to use it;

    git clone git@github.com:Sujimichi/Stepper.git
    cd stepper
    bundle
    rake install


Stepper was written in haste to solve a problem.  It could do with improvment!  Feel free to use and improve.
It is also my first attempt at writing a gem!

It makes a couple assumptions
1. It assumes that it will be run from the rails root dir
2. It assumes that your features and step definitions are in rails_root/features


==Full Usage

All commands are run in the Command line from within your rails root directory;

===Find a step definintion given a line from a feature

    step --find "Given there is a registered user"
    or
    step --find "Given I am logged in as \"sujimichi\" with the password \"password\""
Note the step must be wrapped in <code>""</code> and any <code>"</code> in the step need to be escaped;<code>\"</code>

Works just as well when "And" is used

    step --find "And I am logged in as \"sujimichi\" with the password \"password\""

--find will return the matched step and line number and file name where it is defined, ie:
    found:  Given /^I am logged in as "([^"]*)" with the password "([^"]*)"$/ do |username, password|
    line:   50 in login_steps.rb



===See which lines in features use a given step

    step --useof "Given I am logged in as \"sujimichi\""

    Stepper Results for Specific Step:

    File: login_steps.rb
    42  Given /^I am logged in as "([^"]*)"$/ do |user_name|	Used in 8 features
        features/login.feature:
        lines: 10,18,30,42
        features/users.feature:
        lines: 9,14,25,27

You can get the same output by giving the file name and line number of a step.

    step --useof login_steps 42


===Find Un-used Steps
To get a list of the steps which are no longer being used by your features

    step --notused

Which will return
    File: login_steps.rb
    5 Given /^I have been logged out$/ do
    12  Then /^I should be on the "([^"]*)" page$/ do |arg1|

    File: user_steps.rb
    9	Then /^there should be (\d+) users$/ do |n|
    13	Then /^there should not be any users$/ do

    File: features/common_steps.rb
    99	Given /^the user "([^"]*)"$/ do |arg1|
    118	Given /^Im logged in as "([^"]*)" with no user data$/ do |user_name|

===Overview
To get an output that shows for each step, where it is and which features use it (or if its not used), just call;

    step


==License

Stepper is released under the MIT license.
